Probe design for custom capture validation sequencing: 
Probes were designed using Agilent's SureDesign online web-based tool, located at URL: https://earray.chem.agilent.com/suredesign/.  There were 420 targets provided as HUGO gene symbols along with 560 RefSeq IDs.  RefSeq IDs were used in order to avoid ambiguity in targeting the incorrect isoform of a gene symbol. In addition to these 560 RefSeqIDs, 15 genomic positions were also included in the target region. 
During the design phase, the RefSeq IDs were limited to coding exons, UTRs (both 5' and 3' UTR).  Each region was padded with an additional 10 bases on both the 5' and 3' ends.  This resulted in an overall target space of 2.376 Mbp (megabase pairs). Probe density was specified at 2x, with moderately stringent repeat masking, and balanced boosting options selected.
According to the Agilent SureDesign report, 43,137 probes were designed for a total size 2.785 Mbp (this total counts overlapping bases in adjacent probes separately).  98.7144% of the 2.376 Mbp target region was covered by a probe. Custom Java code was developed at the British Columbia Cancer Agency Genome Sciences Centre (BCGSC) to independently verify the accuracy of the probe design.  This code incorporated a BLAT alignment of each probe against the reference genome (H. sapiens, hg19, GRCh37, February 2009) to ensure the target region was covered. Once the probe design was verified, Agilent SureSelect XT Custom 0.5-2.9Mb probes were ordered.

Whole genome library construction and multiplex custom gene capture: 
Genomic DNA libraries from which gene regions of interest are captured were constructed according to British Columbia Cancer Agency Genome Sciences Centre (BCGSC) plate-based and paired-end library protocols on a Biomek FX liquid handling robot (Beckman-Coulter, USA). Briefly, 1ug of high molecular weight genomic DNA was sonicated (Covaris E210) in a 60uL volume to 200-300bp. Sonicated DNA was purified with magnetic beads (Agencourt, Ampure). The DNA fragments were end-repaired, phosphorylated and bead purified in preparation for A-tailing.  Illumina sequencing adapters were ligated overnight at 20oC and adapter ligated products bead purified and enriched with 4 cycles of PCR using primers containing a hexamer index that enables library pooling.  94ng from each of 19 to 24 different libraries were pooled prior to custom capture using Agilent SureSelect XT Custom 0.5-2.9Mb probes. The pooled libraries were hybridized to the RNA probes at 65oC for 24 hours. Following hybridization, streptavidin-coated magnetic beads (Dynal, MyOne) were used for custom capture. Post-capture material was purified on MinElute columns (Qiagen) followed by post-capture enrichment with 10 cycles of PCR using primers that maintain the library-specific indices.
