Copy number variation (CNV) analysis: the techniques outlined in (Jones et al., 2010) were followed to analyze copy number changes. Sequence quality filtering was used to remove all reads of low mapping quality (Q < 10). Due to the varying amounts of sequence reads from each sample, aligned reference reads were first used to define genomic bins of equal reference coverage to which depths of alignments of sequence from each of the tumor samples were compared. This resulted in a measurement of the relative number of aligned reads from the tumors and reference in bins of variable length along the genome, where bin width is inversely proportional to the number of mapped reference reads. A hidden Markov model (HMM) was used to classify and segment continuous regions of copy number loss, neutrality, or gain using methodology outlined previously (Shah et al., 2006). The five states reported by the HMM were: loss (1), neutral (2), gain (3), amplification (4), and high-level amplification (5).
Amplified and deleted CNV regions are further screened for interspersed repeats, and low complexity DNA sequences, which includes long interspersed nuclear elements (LINE), short interspersed nuclear element (SINE), long terminal repeat elements (LTR), DNA repeat elements (DNA), low complexity repeats,  satellite repeats, simple repeats (micro-satellites), and RNA repeats (including RNA, tRNA, rRNA, snRNA, scRNA, srpRNA).
Repeat sequences in the genome pose challenges in the identification of CNVs with next generation sequencing data as the short reads sequenced from repetitive regions cannot be mapped unambiguously. Exclusion or random placement of the reads aligned to multiple regions can either reduce sensitivity of CNV detection or result in the identification of false deletions in repeated regions. Due to the limitations of both alignment and subsequent segmentation algorithms, CNVs called in the regions harboring highly repeated sequences should be carefully scrutinized. Therefore, in addition to focal CNV functional annotation, recurrence among patients, and presence of TransAbyss overlapping events, the number and types of repeats are added to the annotation of candidate CNVs to further narrow down the prioritized list for verification. It is recommended that the candidate CNVs be prioritized based on the presence of genes of interest, high recurrence among patients, presence of overlapping TransAbyss events, and low frequency or absence of repeat nuclear elements
