DNA methylation array (From Johann et al. (2016) Cancer Cell)
DNA methylation from 150 primary ATRTs was assessed using Illumina HumanMethylation450 BeadChip arrays at the German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ) Genomics and Proteomics Core Facility according to the manufacturer’s instructions and as previously described (Sturm et al., 2012). Raw data files generated by the iScan array scanner were read and preprocessed using the capabilities of the Bioconductor package minfi (Aryee et al., 2014). With the minfi package the same preprocessing steps as in Illumina's Genomestudio software were performed. Additionally, a correction for batch effects was performed. Batch effects were estimated by fitting a linear model to the log2 transformed intensity values of the methylated and unmethylated channel. After removing the component due to the batch effect the residuals were back transformed to intensity scale and methylation beta values were calculated as described in Illumina’s protocols. All samples were checked for expected and unexpected genotype matches by pairwise correlation of the 65 genotyping probes on the 450k array. In addition, the following filtering criteria were applied: Removal of probes targeting the X and Y chromosomes (n = 11,551), removal of probes containing a single nucleotide polymorphism (dbSNP132 Common) within five base pairs of and including the targeted CpG-site (n = 24,536), and probes not mapping uniquely to the human reference genome (hg19) allowing for one mismatch (n = 9,993). Finally, 438,370 probes were kept for analysis. Generation of copy number profiles was carried out as described (Sturm et al., 2012). Unsupervised hierarchical clustering was performed using the 10,000 most variable CG-probes over the whole cohort. Distance measure was euclidean for the CG-sites and 1-Pearson for the samples, average linkage. For consensus clustering, the R package ConsensusClusterPlus was used at the default settings. For assessment of overall methylation levels, beta values of all CG probes were averaged. Methylation data have been deposited at the NCBI Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO; http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo) and are accessible under accession number GSE70460.
