Total RNA samples were checked using an Agilent Bioanalyzer RNA nanochip or Caliper GX HT RNA LabChip, and samples passing quality 
control were arrayed into a 96-well plate. PolyA+ RNA was purified using the 96-well MultiMACS mRNA isolation kit on the MultiMACS 
96 separator (Miltenyi Biotec, Germany) from 2ug total RNA with on-column DNaseI-treatment as per the manufacturer's instructions. 
The eluted PolyA+ RNA was ethanol precipitated and resuspended in 10uL of DEPC treated water with 1:20 SuperaseIN 
(Life Technologies, USA).

First-stranded cDNA was synthesized from the purified polyA+RNA using the Superscript cDNA Synthesis kit (Life Technologies, USA) 
and random hexamer primers at a concentration of 5uM along with a final concentration of 1ug/uL Actinomycin D, followed by Ampure 
XP SPRI beads on a Biomek FX robot (Beckman-Coulter, USA). The second strand cDNA was synthesized following the Superscript cDNA 
Synthesis protocol by replacing the dTTP with dUTP in dNTP mix, allowing second strand to be digested using UNG (Uracil-N-Glycosylase, 
Life Technologies, USA) in the post-adapter ligation reaction and thus achieving strand specificity.

The cDNA was quantified in a 96-well format using PicoGreen (Life Technologies, USA) and VICTOR3V Spectrophotometer (PerkinElmer, Inc. USA). 
The cDNA was fragmented by Covaris E210 sonication for 55 seconds at a "Duty cycle" of 20% and "Intensity" of 5. The paired-end sequencing 
library was prepared following the BC Cancer Agency Genome Sciences Centre strand-specific, plate-based and paired-end library construction 
protocol on a Biomek FX robot (Beckman-Coulter, USA). Briefly, the cDNA was purified in 96-well format using Ampure XP SPRI beads, and 
was subject to end-repair, and phosphorylation by T4 DNA polymerase, Klenow DNA Polymerase, and T4 polynucleotide kinase respectively in 
a single reaction, followed by cleanup using Ampure XP SPRI beads and 3' A-tailing by Klenow fragment (3' to 5' exo minus). After purification 
using Ampure XP SPRI beads, picogreen quantification was performed to determine the amount of Illumina PE adapters to be used in the next 
step of adapter ligation reaction. The adapter-ligated products were purified using Ampure XP SPRI beads, and digested with UNG (1U/ul) at 
37 degC for 30 min followed by deactivation at 95oC for 15 min. The digested cDNA was purified using Ampure XP SPRI beads, and then PCR-amplified 
with Phusion DNA Polymerase (Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. USA) using Illumina's PE primer set,  with cycle condition 98 degC  30sec followed by 
10-13 cycles of 98 degC  10 sec, 65 degC  30 sec and 72 degC  30 sec, and then 72 degC  5min. The PCR products were purified using Ampure XP 
SPRI beads, and checked with Caliper LabChip GX for DNA samples using the High Sensitivity Assay (PerkinElmer, Inc. USA). PCR product of the 
desired size range was purified using 8% PAGE, and the DNA quality was assessed and quantified using an Agilent DNA 1000 series II assay and 
Quant-iT dsDNA HS Assay Kit using Qubit fluorometer (Invitrogen), then diluted to 8nM. The final library concentration was double checked and 
determined by Quant-iT dsDNA HS Assay again for Illumina Sequencing.
