2-3 ug total RNA samples were arrayed into a 96-well plate and polyadenylated (PolyA+) RNA was purified using 
the 96-well MultiMACS mRNA isolation kit on the MultiMACS 96 separator (Miltenyi Biotec, Germany) with on column 
DNaseI-treatment as per the manufacturer's instructions. The eluted PolyA+ RNA was ethanol precipitated and 
resuspended in 10uL of DEPC treated water with 1:20 SuperaseIN (Life Technologies, USA). Double-stranded cDNA 
was synthesized from the purified polyA+RNA using the Superscript Double-Stranded cDNA Synthesis kit (Life 
Technologies, USA) and random hexamer primers at a concentration of 5uM. The cDNA was quantified in a 96-well 
format using PicoGreen (Life Technologies, USA) and VICTOR3V Spectrophotometer (PerkinElmer, Inc. USA). The 
quality was checked for a random sampling on an Agilent Bioanalyzer using the High Sensitivity DNA chip Assay. 
cDNA was fragmented by Covaris E210 (Covaris, USA) sonication for 55 seconds, a "Duty cycle" of 20% and 
"Intensity" of 5. Plate-based libraries were prepared following the BC Cancer Agency, Genome Sciences Centre 
paired-end (PE) protocol on a Biomek FX robot (Beckman-Coulter, USA). Briefly, the cDNA was purified in 96-well 
format using Ampure XP SPRI beads, and was subject to end-repair and phosphorylation by T4 DNA polymerase, 
Klenow DNA Polymerase, and T4 polynucleotide kinase respectively in a single reaction, followed by cleanup using 
Ampure XP SPRI beads and 3' A-tailing by Klenow fragment (3' to 5' exo minus). After cleanup using Ampure XP 
SPRI beads, picogreen quantification was performed to determine the amount of Illumina PE adapters used in the 
next step of adapter ligation reaction. The adapter-ligated products were purified using Ampure XP SPRI beads, 
then PCR-amplified with Phusion DNA Polymerase (Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. USA) using Illumina's PE primer set, 
with cycle condition 98 degC  30sec followed by 10-15 cycles of 98 degC  10 sec, 65 degC  30 sec and 72 degC  30 sec, 
and then 72 degC 5min. The PCR products were purified using Ampure XP SPRI beads, and checked with Caliper 
LabChip GX for DNA samples using the High Sensitivity Assay (PerkinElmer, Inc. USA). PCR product of desired size 
range was purified using an in-house 96-channel size selection robot, and the DNA quality was assessed and 
quantified using an Agilent DNA 1000 series II assay and Quant-iT dsDNA HS Assay Kit using Qubit fluorometer 
(Invitrogen), then diluted to 8nM. The final concentration was verified by Quant-iT dsDNA HS Assay prior to Illumina 
HiSeq2000 PE 75 base sequencing. 
