DNA samples were constructed into Illumina paired-end libraries and processed through exome capture 
according to the manufacturer's specifications with modifications as described in the BCM-HGSC Illumina 
Barcoded Paired-End Capture Library Preparation protocol 
(https://hgsc.bcm.edu/sites/default/files/documents/Illumina_Barcoded_Paired-End_Capture_Library_Preparation.pdf).

Pre-capture libraries were prepared using Beckman robotic workstations (Biomek NXp and FXp models). 
Briefly, 500ng of DNA was sheared into fragments of approximately 300-400 base pairs in a Covaris plate 
with E210 system (Covaris, Inc. Woburn, MA) followed by end-repair, A-tailing and ligation of the Illumina 
multiplexing PE adaptors.  Pre-capture Ligation Mediated-PCR (LM-PCR) was performed for 6 cycles of 
amplification using the KAPA HiFi DNA Polymerase (Kapa Biosystems, Inc., Cat. no. KM2602).  Purification 
was performed with Agencourt AMPure XP beads after enzymatic reactions.  Following the final XP beads 
purification, quantification and size distribution of the pre-capture LM-PCR product was determined using 
the LabChip GX electrophoresis system (PerkinElmer).

For exome capture, four pre-capture libraries were pooled together in equimolar amounts (totaling 1 ug/pool). 
These pooled libraries were then hybridized in solution to the HGSC VCRome 2.1 design1 (42Mb, NimbleGen) 
according to the manufacturer's protocol NimbleGen SeqCap EZ Exome Library SR User's Guide (Version 2.2) 
with minor revisions.  Human COT1 DNA and full-length Illumina adaptor-specific blocking oligonucleotides 
were added into the hybridization to block repetitive genomic sequences and the adaptor sequences. 
Post-capture LM-PCR amplification was performed using KAPA HiFi DNA Polymerase with 12 cycles of amplification. 
After the final AMPure XP bead purification, quantity and size of the capture library was analyzed using the 
Agilent Bioanalyzer 2100 DNA Chip 7500.  The efficiency of the capture was evaluated by performing a qPCR-based 
quality check on the four standard NimbleGen internal controls.  Successful enrichment of the capture libraries 
was estimated to range from a 6 to 9 of 'Ct value over the non-enriched samples.
