Putative somatic SNVs and indels were extracted from MAF files downloaded from 
the TARGET Data Matrix and run through a 3-step filter to remove germline, 
low-confidence and paralog variations. In the first step, the following data 
sets were used for filtering germline variants: 1) NLHBI Exome Sequencing 
Project (http://evs.gs.washington.edu/EVS/); 2) dbSNP build 132 
(https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/projects/SNP/); 3) St. Jude/Washington University 
Pediatric Cancer Genome Project (PCGP), and 4) germline variants present in 
>= 5 cases in TARGET CGI WGS data. In the second step, a variant will be 
considered low-confidence unless it meets the following criteria: 1) at least 
3 more reads support the mutant allele in the tumor sample than in the normal 
sample; 2) the mutant read count in tumor is significantly higher than in the 
matched normal (P<0.01 by Fisher's Exact test); and 3) mutant allele fraction 
in normal is below 0.05. In the third step, we ran a BLAT search3 using a 
template sequence consisting of the mutant allele and its 20-bp flanking 
region to determine whether or not the mutation was uniquely mapped. 
Because pathogenic germline variants may overlap with oncogenic somatic 
mutations, we implemented a "rescue" pipeline to avoid over-filtering. All 
putative somatic variants were first re-annotated using a customized AnnoVar 
pipeline (Edmonson et al, unpublished) and performed variant classification 
using Medal_Ceremony. Variants assigned "Gold" by medal ceremony are those 
matching known mutation hotspots, or truncation mutations in tumor suppressor 
genes. These were "rescued" and merged with the filtered variants for each 
gene and the results further curated using our visualization program 
ProteinPaint (https://pecan.stjude.org/proteinpaint/study/pan-target).
The filtering process reduced the original 51 million SNVs and 38 million 
indels from the CGI MAF files to a set of ~700,000 SNVs and 58,000 indels. 
Of these, 9,397 SNVs and 1,000 indels are in protein coding regions. We tested 
the filter on 14 diagnosis-remission-relapse trio samples that were analyzed 
by both CGI and WES. Of the 661 CGI SNVs passing the filter, 580 (88%) were 
verified by WES while the indel verification rate is 67% (48/72).  Notably, 
all 53 variants (45 SNVs and 8 indels) on the driver genes identified in this 
study were cross-validated by WES. 
