We adapted the CONSERTING algorithm to detect copy number alterations from 
CGI whole genome sequencing data. Briefly, the germline single nucleotide 
polymorphisms (SNPs) reported by CGI in the MAF files were extracted, with 
recurrent paralogous variants (identified from the 625 germline whole 
genome sequencing data generated by the St Jude Pediatric Cancer Genome 
Project) removed. The read counts of the SNPs were then used to construct 
a coverage file by taking the mean of all SNPs within a sliding window of 
100bp. The coverage difference between tumor and normal samples were then 
used as the input for CONSERTING. To detect loss-of-heterozygosity (LOH), 
we used SNPs that have variant allele fraction (VAF) in normal within an 
interval of (0.4, 0.6) and have >15X coverage in both tumor and normal 
samples. For these SNPs, the allelic imbalance (AI), defined as 
|Tumor_VAF-0.5|, was used as the input for CONSERTING to detect LOH. 
Regions with concomitant copy number changes (log ratio>0.2 or log 
ratio<-0.2) and/or LOH (AI>0.1) were subjected to manual review. Finally, 
regions with length <2Mb that passed manual review were considered to be 
focal changes and included in the GRIN analysis to determine the 
significance of the somatic alterations. We compared the MYCN amplification 
status derived from CONSERTING with that of the original CGI analysis to 
evaluate the accuracy of the recalled CNVs. A subset of 32 NBL tumors 
carried a clinically-validated high-amplitude amplification of MYCN, which 
is a known oncogenic driver in pediatric neuroblastoma8. While CGI's HMM 
CNA model only reported MYCN amplifications in 15 out of these 32 tumors. 
CONSERTING successfully identified high-amplitude amplifications in 31 
tumors. For the NBL (PASJZC) with a negative finding of MYCN amplification 
by CONSERTING, a follow-up review of the initial diagnosis data indicated 
that this discrepancy could be explained by tumor heterogeneity and tumor 
material sampling bias. Moreover, two additional subclonal MYCN amplification 
events were predicted in the remaining tumor samples (PARACM, PATHVK). These 
results demonstrate that CONSERTING achieved higher sensitivity over the 
original CGI analysis. For osteosarcoma, CNA analysis was limited to the 
TP53 locus but not the other regions due to the excessive number of 
rearrangements caused by chromothripsis in this cancer histotype.

